README file for Programming Assignment 2 (C++ edition)
=====================================================

Your directory should now contain the following files:

 Makefile        -> [course dir]/src/PA2/Makefile
 README
 cool.flex
 test.cl
 lextest.cc      -> [course dir]/src/PA2/lextest.cc
 mycoolc         -> [course dir]/src/PA2/mycoolc
 stringtab.cc    -> [course dir]/src/PA2/stringtab.cc
 utilities.cc    -> [course dir]/src/PA2/utilities.cc
 handle_flags.cc -> [course dir]/src/PA2/handle_flags.cc
 *.d             dependency files
 *.*             other generated files

The include (.h) files for this assignment can be found in 
[course dir]/include/PA2

	The Makefile contains targets for compiling and running your
	program. DO NOT MODIFY.

	The README contains this info. Part of the assignment is to fill
	the README with the write-up for your project. You should
	explain design decisions, explain why your code is correct, and
	why your test cases are adequate. It is part of the assignment
	to clearly and concisely explain things in text as well as to
	comment your code. Just edit this file.

	cool.flex is a skeleton file for the specification of the
	lexical analyzer. You should complete it with your regular
	expressions, patterns and actions. Information on how to do this
	is in the flex manual, which is part of your reader.

	test.cl is a COOL program that you can test the lexical
	analyzer on. It contains some errors, so it won't compile with
	coolc. However, test.cl does not exercise all lexical
	constructs of COOL and part of your assignment is to rewrite
	test.cl with a complete set of tests for your lexical analyzer.

	cool-parse.h contains definitions that are used by almost all parts
	of the compiler. DO NOT MODIFY.

	stringtab.{cc|h} and stringtab_functions.h contains functions
        to manipulate the string tables.  DO NOT MODIFY.

	utilities.{cc|h} contains functions used by the main() part of
	the lextest program. You may want to use the strdup() function
	defined in here. Remember that you should not print anything
	from inside cool.flex! DO NOT MODIFY.

	lextest.cc contains the main function which will call your
	lexer and print out the tokens that it returns.  DO NOT MODIFY.

	mycoolc is a shell script that glues together the phases of the
	compiler using Unix pipes instead of statically linking code.  
	While inefficient, this architecture makes it easy to mix and match
	the components you write with those of the course compiler.
	DO NOT MODIFY.	

        cool-lexer.cc is the scanner generated by flex from cool.flex.
        DO NOT MODIFY IT, as your changes will be overritten the next
        time you run flex.

 	The *.d files are automatically generated Makefiles that capture
 	dependencies between source and header files in this directory.
 	These files are updated automatically by Makefile; see the gmake
 	documentation for a detailed explanation.

Instructions
------------

	To compile your lextest program type:

	% gmake lexer

	Run your lexer by putting your test input in a file 'foo.cl' and
	run the lextest program:

	% ./lexer foo.cl

	To run your lexer on the file test.cl type:

	% gmake dotest

	If you think your lexical analyzer is correct and behaves like
	the one we wrote, you can actually try 'mycoolc' and see whether
	it runs and produces correct code for any examples.
	If your lexical analyzer behaves in an
	unexpected manner, you may get errors anywhere, i.e. during
	parsing, during semantic analysis, during code generation or
	only when you run the produced code on spim. So beware.

	To turnin your work type:

	% gmake submit-clean

	And run the "submit" program following the instructions on the
	course web page.
	
	Running "submit" will collect the files cool.flex, test.cl,
	README, and test.output. Don't forget to edit the README file to
	include your write-up, and to write your own test cases in
	test.cl.

 	You may turn in the assignment as many times as you like.
	However, only the last version will be retained for
	grading.

	If you change architectures you must issue

	% gmake clean

	when you switch from one type of machine to the other.
	If at some point you get weird errors from the linker,	
	you probably forgot this step.

	GOOD LUCK!

---8<------8<------8<------8<---cut here---8<------8<------8<------8<---

Write-up for PA2
----------------

All names and regex are correct because they accurately reflect all possible values of 
each keywords, identifiers and both single and multi character operators. Particularly the
LINECOMMENT ensures that the comment ends at the next new line. I decided to do it this 
way instead of with a start condition because it appears to be just as effective and 
simpler.

The functions ERR(err) and COND(cond, err) are both correct because ERR(err) removes 
redundant code throughout the scanner while still returning the ERROR token with the 
correct error message. The COND(cond, err) allows the scanner to check for a condition, 
and if that condition is met, to create an error message and return an ERROR token.
The function string_buf_push(c) ensures that the string is not over the maximum length 
allowed before pushing the newest character (c) onto the string_buf_ptr.

There is no token that needs to be returned for either Whitespace or LineComments, so they
can be empty. Keywords and Multi character operators all return their correct tokens.
Identifiers and Integers are added to their respective tables then passed onto the parser.

The String statements uses a start condition to ensure that all possible conditions of the 
string are taken into account. This includes instructions on how to handle any character 
that is escaped, and adding special cases to characters that need to be added as a special
character (\t, \v, \n etc). It also includes cases for EOF and null characters being found
inside of the string.

We also used a start statement for the multiLineComments. This allowed us to use little 
code to make sure that all possibilities of Multi Line comments were handled, including
having an end of file before the comment ended, and ensuring that it does not leave the
condition until all nested comments have been taken care of before the EOF is encountered.  
